On Applying Blockchain to Democracy
Why the time is now for starting this conversation? hghg

Harnessing the potential of blockchain technologies for democracy ought to be as common sense as embracing innovation in clean energy and lifesaving biomedicine. While we’re not there yet, the moment to start a global conversation is now. Politicians, lawmakers, technologists and general public are invited to design new forms of 21st century governance to address issues of representation, transparency and security polluting most of the consolidated democracies.

Land vs Cloud
Up to the 20th century, human generations lived predominantly in the Land -- a local world ruled by nation-states and the law of the land. Whereas the 21st century generations are mostly living in the cloud -- a global world ruled by social media and algorithms. Increasingly, constituents are becoming disengaged offline (as evidenced by low voter participation and representation) and polarized online (as evidenced by rise of attention mining and ideological isolation).

As the system for citizen-participation is shifting from traditional ballot (every 4 years) to social ballot ("likes" in social media every day), the Cloud world is outpacing the Land with a cadence that makes difficult for legislators to keeping the pulse on where their constituents stand on every issue and assessing real time emerging key influencers. In addition, the forces of the Land vs Cloud are clashing for the first time as witnessed in Mark Zuckenber'g hearing -- the battle between the language of policy-markets (lawyers) and code-markers (developers).

Liquid Democracy
What if there’s a voting platform that can help us experiment a blended model of democracy? A new form of collective decision making that merges direct and representative democracy: voters can either vote directly on issues, or they can delegate their voting power to delegates (i.e. representatives) who vote on their behalf. Delegation can be domain specific, which means that voters can delegate their voting power to different experts in different domains.

At Democracy Earth, we are building Sovereign -- a governance protocol based on blockchain to enable liquid democracy in a secured, incorruptible and transparent way. A tool that reconciles the powers of Land and Cloud, creating a new form of voting representation with institutional impact for the 21st century.

Add
Coding for Democracy video
Pionners. Prizes, Awards, Media.
